Now let's simply see an example,
which should make this clearer for that attached you find
a simple project,
which has? Free folders or 2 folders in one file
assets folder at info folder and index.
HTML file the extra folders and files we see here.
Are just here in my local setup for version control
and for my editor settings.
We can ignore them right?
Now you don't need them,
they're not related to the web page so we get.
3 things in there to folders and the index HTML
file now you can simply double click that index HTML
file.
And it will open up here in a new browser
window where it should at least have not open a
browser window.
And drag the index HTML file into it now.
This is a little dummy page.
I prepared for you. It holds some damning information about
this course in about me,
your instructor all this information is valid by the way.
But of course, we're not building.
This web page here right now.
This is mostly HTML and CSS S or to be
precise.
It's pretty much all HTML and CSS S at this
point,
and you can always go back to these files and
then the assets folder.
You'll find images folder with my image.
You'll find a styles folder with the CSS files and
if you would.
Look into the index HTML file for example,
by right clicking on it,
and opening it with a text editor.
And you can use your text editor on Mac or
the normal notepad or text editor on windows if you
are using text edit on Mac.
Go to preferences here. And on open and save make
sure you check this.
Display HTML files as HTML code instead of formatted text
box.
Then close this and reopen.
With Textedit and there's only applies to Mac here and
you will see the raw HTML code.
So this is a bunch of HTML code here.
But what you won't see in there is anything JavaScript
in this file it's just.
HTML and some imported CSS styles.
This needs to this page and here on this page.
We have these 2 links dynamic interpreted and weekly type
that if you click on any of these links you're
taken to a new page.
Here's the dynamic page where we see a more detailed
explanation.
And here is the weakly typed page.
Now, what we have here is a traditional web page
and what we also have here is a new request
being sent to a server.
If this were served by a server instead of our
local file system and the new page being loaded right
we're always loading a new page here.
Of course, there's nothing wrong with that,
but a more modern way a more user friendly way
of doing that.
Might be to not load a new page here,
but instead to show this piece of information,
maybe in an? Overlay to the existing page.
Such a modal as it's called little pop up like
window,
which gets loaded. As a overlay on this already existing
page,
so that we don't need to fetch a new HTML
page and.
Break the user experience of it,
therefore, but instead that we stay on this existing page
and only tweak it a little bit so we kind
of need to tweak the?
Existing HTML code this code here,
which was loaded by the browser whilst.
We are on the page so without loading a new
HTML file.
That's the idea and that is where JavaScript can help
us and why JavaScript was invented and why it.
Is so important these days be cause any modern website
you visit all these exciting user interactions you have there?
With drop downs with overlays and so on all of
that is driven by JavaScript and we can turn this
page here.
Thank you more exciting page as well,
I prepared something for you.
You might have noticed that in this.
Starting code I provided to you in the assets folder.
You also have a scripts folder with a huge file
dot JS stands for JavaScript and this is how you
store JavaScript code.
In JavaScript now we can of course,
also inspect that file by clicking on open with.
And then also texted it.
And what you see in there.
Is JavaScript code now at this point of time?
Of course you won't understand.
All this code? Maybe you understand none of that,
if you have no previous experience with JavaScript.
And will of course changed it throughout the course will
start at the core basics and you will understand all
this code.
Once we progress throughout the course and of course,
once we completed the course.
But for now, we can just take this code for
granted.
Close this file and ignore it,
and instead. Let's go back to our index.
HTML file to the source code we open here in
the editor.
And below this link here where we import the app
CS as file above the hat here.
Let's add a new HTML tag.
Script. Also, closing tag for it.
And then add a SRC attribute to script here and
point at assets slash scripts,
slash apdj so at. This JavaScript file we just had
a look at.
That alone won't do the trick.
Let's also Scroll down a bit.
And go to these 2 links we have here to
dynamic interpreted and the weekly type link.
Now, Dear. Let's remove that link to info.
Dynamic HTML and add a hash instead.
And instead add a new attribute here.
Data dash text to this anchor tag here equals and
then double quotes and now let's go to the.
Info folder and then to the dynamic HTML file open
that with the text editor and simply grab the text
you have in there.
Between the paragraph tax excluding the paragraph tax.
And copy that. And paste that here between the double
quotes.
Now make sure you get rid of any line breaks.
You might have in their becaus that will not work,
so that this is all one long line of code
in the end.
And they're off to read one more thing to the
anchor tech class.
To add a CSS S class info dash modal?
Now repeat that. We can copy all of these attributes
on the second linked and replace its reference with the
hashtag reference as well.
And the text. We show there should of course,
now be the text we find in the weakly typed.
HTML files if you open that with a text editor,
Let's grab this. Text here,
we find in their copy it.
And also replaced the text here on the second anchor
tag with this text now again make sure you get
rid.
Of any line breaks you might have here.
Becaus these will break your code.
Now, with that let's go back to our script important.
Add one important word here after the SRC attribute and
that's the defer attribute.
This controls how and when this JavaScript code is executed
and I'll dive back into this a little bit later
for now,
let's just add it. Then saved as whole index HTML
file go back to your page and reload it.
By simply clicking the reload I can hear and then
click on one of these links.
And now you will get this nice overlay here,
which you can also close by clicking on that backdrop.
Now, what we have here.
Is knew content which is dynamically added to the existing
web page?
By JavaScript were not loading a new web page here.
Instead, this overlay is shown by JavaScript.
And this of course, is a way better user experience.
Becaus now we don't send the user off to a
new page.
We don't wait for knew.
HTML code to be downloaded which change the existing page.
This is something you see on a lot of modern
web pages.
Because it's faster it's more like in a mobile app
where you also don't have to wait for things to
complete.
And effort this is one of the core reasons why
JavaScript is dad important,
it allows us to make web pages.
More dynamic. So if we come back to that question
of what JavaScript is.
If I quickly dive into the core things we learned
on this previous slide.
JavaScript is a dynamic weakly typed programming language.
It's interpreted language, which means it's compiled on the fly.
It's compiled before it runs and not compiled during development.
As some other programming languages are it's a hosted language
that runs in different environments,
though, thus far in the last example.
We just saw it. Run in the browser,
but I'll come back to our environments in this course
as well.
And the most prominent use cases to case.
We just thought we run code in a browser on
a web page to make it more dynamic.
So now we understand why we use JavaScript and what
it allows us to do,
but what do these turns?
Dynamic weakly typed, and interpreted as well as host language
mean in detail.